Harry and Ron remain furious at Hermione for her part in Harry's new Firebolt being confiscated. As a result, Hermione
tries to avoid the common room, doing her endless studying in the library and, presumably, her dorm. Holidays end, and
the night before classes start, Oliver Wood corners Harry and asks if he has his Dementor problem sorted out. Harry
says that Professor Lupin has promised to help with that. Oliver asks about a new broom, and Ron tells him about
the Firebolt. Oliver thinks it is unlikely it was sent by Black, a fugitive on the run. He promises to make
Professor McGonagall see sense. Classes start but are no fun. Hagrid, however, has cheered up, and for his
first lesson has a large bonfire filled with flame-loving salamanders. Professor Trelawney has moved
the Divination class on to palmistry and wastes no time in pronouncing that Harry has the shortest life lines
she has ever seen. Harry is eager for Defence Against the Dark Arts class and Professor Lupin's promised
anti-Dementor lessons. Ron mentions that Lupin looks sick and wonders what is wrong with him. Hermione,
overhearing, remarks that it is obvious, but does not elaborate. Later that evening, Harry meets with Lupin,
who is carrying a Boggart in a case. Lupin says it will turn into a Dementor against which Harry can practice.
Lupin teaches Harry the Patronus charm, saying Harry must recall a happy memory. Harry, concentrating, causes white
vapour to eject from his wand. He is ready for a test. The Boggart is released and appears as a Dementor.
Harry tries casting a Patronus, but hearing his mother's screams, passes out.
Lupin brings him around and gives him a Chocolate Frog. Harry wants to try again and selects a new memory.
This time he hears the screaming and also his father's voice, then faints. When he revives, Harry says this time
he heard his father; Lupin, looking shaken, admits that he knew James and suggests calling it a night.
But Harry wants to continue and remembers the day he learned he was a Wizard and would be leaving the Dursleys.
The Boggart is released. Harry tries to conjure a Patronus, and again hears screaming, but fainter.
Something huge and white bursts from his wand, and the false Dementor is halted. Lupin quickly steps in and uses
the Riddikulus charm to return it to the case. Lupin says Harry has done enough, and they will try again next week.
Harry, remembering that his father and Sirius Black had been friends, asks if Lupin knew Black, and Lupin admits that
he and Black went to Hogwarts at the same time. Ravenclaw plays Slytherin and loses by a slim margin.
This cheers Oliver Wood because if Gryffindor can beat Ravenclaw, Gryffindor will be in second place.
Wood increases practice to five times a week, which combined with weekly anti-Dementor lessons leaves Harry
only one night a week for homework. Hermione seems to have it worse, though she is somehow is getting to all
her classes, even those which seem to be at the same time. Oliver tells Harry that the Firebolt
will not be returned immediately. Oliver felt that Harry flying a jinxed broom would not be a problem if
he won the match before it threw him off, though McGonagall, for some reason he is unable to fathom,
felt this was rather insensitive. He suggests Harry order a Nimbus 2001, but Harry declines, saying he does not want to
 use a broom that Draco thinks is good. The anti-Dementor lessons are not going well either. Despite his
 earlier success, Harry can now only produce a thin, silvery mist. After one long session, Professor Lupin brings out
 Butterbeer from the Three Broomsticks. Harry nearly lets it slip that he has been there.
 They discuss Dementors, and Lupin says the Ministry has given the Dementors permission to
 administer the "Kiss" to Black, sucking out his soul. Harry thinks Black deserves this,
 though Lupin expresses some skepticism. As Harry returns to the Gryffindor common room after this session,
 Professor McGonagall stops him to return the Firebolt, declaring it jinx free.
 Outside Sir Cadogan's portrait, Neville is in tears. He had written down the passwords for the
 week—Sir Cadogan changes them several times a day—but he has lost the list. Harry gives the password, and they enter.
 Nearly everyone wants to see the Firebolt, and there is renewed hope they can win the Cup.
 Harry and Ron finally reconcile with Hermione, who looks exhausted.
 Ron offers to take the Firebolt up to the dorm, it being time for Scabbers' rat tonic.
 As Harry again wonders how Hermione can be taking so many classes, Ron suddenly reappears,
 howling that Scabbers is missing, and carrying a bloody sheet covered with what looks like Crookshanks' hairs.