The game's main story revolves around the player's character, the Dragonborn, on their quest to defeat
Alduin the World-Eater, a dragon who is prophesied to destroy the world. The game is set 200 years after the events
of Oblivion and takes place in Skyrim, the northernmost province of Tamriel. Over the course of the game, the player
completes quests and develops the character by improving skills. The game continues the open-world tradition of its
predecessors by allowing the player to travel anywhere in the game world at any time, and to ignore or postpone
the main storyline indefinitely.
Skyrim was developed using the Creation Engine, rebuilt specifically for the game. The team opted for a unique and
more diverse open world than Oblivion's Imperial Province of Cyrodiil, which game director and executive producer
Todd Howard considered less interesting by comparison. Upon release, the game received critical acclaim, with praise
for its character advancement, world design, visuals, and dual-wielding combat. Minor criticism targeted
the melee combat, dragon battles, and the numerous technical issues present at launch. Critics consider Skyrim
one of the greatest video games of all time. The game shipped over seven million copies to retailers within the
first week of its release, and over 30 million copies on all platforms as of November 2016, making it one of
the best selling video games in history.
Three downloadable content (DLC) add-ons were released separately — Dawnguard, Hearthfire, and Dragonborn,
which were bundled along with the base game into The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Legendary Edition and
released in June 2013. A remastered version, titled The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Special Edition was released
for Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in October 2016. It includes all three DLC expansions and a graphical upgrade.
A port for the Nintendo Switch was released on November 2017. A separate VR-only version, titled
The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim VR, was released in November 2017 for PlayStation 4 using PlayStation VR, and
for Windows-based VR headsets in April 2018. In addition, the Special Edition was released on PlayStation 5 and
Xbox Series X/S as part of a compilation titled The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Anniversary Edition in November 2021.